README.md, before:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/76963489-0a23-4cd5-b203-0ce329e02437/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/satsuma/deploys)

# Satsuma Research Group Site
This is the Satsuma Research Group Site, built using Hugo with theme Research Group by Wowchemy. More details on the theme and extra documentation below. The site itself is hosted on Netlify and built on the ```main``` branch, live at [satsuma.netlify.app](https://satsuma.netlify.app/).

**All research group members are entitled to update content and are strongly encouraged to as soon as possible!**

Content is written in [markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and managed using git, so content can be easily updated with any text editor or even without leaving github itself! Only make changes to the main branch via pull requests where a preview build will be generated by bots. Changes to the live site requires a 2nd reviewer to approve.

# Adding content
All content editing should be done in [/content/](/content), if in doubt you're welcome to ask. If your content doesn't fall within these categories then discuss with Joe/Ashkan to see what can be done.

1. Create a new branch with your name. Only edit the repository within this branch.
2. Make content changes in in [/content/](/content), commit with a short description and push.
3. Make a pull request to the main branch. Check the preview deploy, if you wish to make anymore changes, you can do so by repeating 2, this should update the pull request.
4. A fellow group member will review your changes, if approved your changes will be pulled to the main branch, netlify will re-build the site and it will go live.

For how to include videos, latex math etc. see [wowchemy's page elements documentation](https://wowchemy.com/docs/content/)


## [Profiles](https://satsuma.netlify.app/people/)
Profiles are under [/content/authors](/content/authors), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate a fellow team member's (not Joe) folder within [/content/authors](/content/authors). Rename it to `shortname` for your name e.g. Joseph Jacob is `joe`. This is where all content relating to your profile will be stored.
2. replace `avatar.{jpg/png}` with your own profile pic (must be the same name).
3. Edit `\_index.md` to your details.
  * Leave `superuser` as false.
  * Leave `url` under `organisation` empty.
  * Your bio will be under the `---`.
  * Don't edit `email`, `highlight_name` and `user_groups`.
4. Feel free to add/remove social icons as you wish there are [SO MANY available](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons).

## [Papers](https://satsuma.netlify.app/publication/)
Papers are under [/content/publication](/content/publication), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate an existing paper's folder within [/content/publication](/content/publication). Rename it to ```authorYYYY-shorthand-identifer```. This is where all content relating to your paper will be stored.
2. create a `cite.bib` file for the bibtex citation of your paper, this will make it easy for people to cite your paper!
3. edit `index.md` and fill with your paper's information.
  * Make sure you include all names, check spelling as the site cross-references between papers.
  * Use the same [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) date_format. e.g. `date: "2021-02-18T00:00:00Z"`.
  * Use `summary` as a [plain language summary](https://authorservices.taylorandfrancis.com/publishing-your-research/writing-your-paper/how-to-write-a-plain-language-summary/).
  * Please provide as many relevant tags as you can think of, these are cross-referenced across the site.
  * Add as many of the links as you can! Particular PDF if your paper is open-access ONLY.
4. You can add a featured image, make sure it is named `featured.{png/jpg}` and saved within your paper's folder.

**Alternatively**:  Can you use the [academic python package](https://pypi.org/project/academic/) for Hugo websites. Then edit these files to comply with the above.

`pip3 install -U academic`

`academic import --bibtex <path_to_your/publications.bib>`

## [News/Blog posts](https://satsuma.netlify.app/post/)
News posts are under [/content/post](/content/post), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate an existing post within [/content/post](/content/post). Rename it to  `YY-MM-DD-shortname`.  This is where all content relating to your post will be stored.
2. edit `index.md`: the header is contained within `---`.
  * Leave authors empty unless is it appropriate to specify. When specifying authors, use `authors: ["joe","ashkan"]` (e.g. `shortname`) format. Their `Name` and `shortbio` will appear associated with the post.
3. edit `index.md`: the body of the post is after `---`.
  * Text before `<!--more-->` is meant to act as a teaser and will appear as a preview to the post. Place it where appropriate. e.g. after the first sentence.
4. **Required** Add a featured image, make sure it is named `featured.{png/jpg}` and saved within your post's folder. This will be the thumbnail image of your post.

## Notes
* If you set `publishDate` to the future, it will not appear on the site until after that date.
* Simple markdown is plenty enough for adding/editing content, though if you want more, see [wowchemy's documentation](https://wowchemy.com/docs/).


# Local live preview
Want a live preview of changes you make to the site? Then you will need to [install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) using your favorite package manager. Navigate to the site repo on your local machine and run `Hugo server`, it will provide a link to view the local build and also re-build when you make any changes to site files within a split second! Handy for anything major.

---
## Wowchemy's Research Group Template for [Hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo)

The **Research Group Template** empowers your research group to easily create a beautiful website with a stunning homepage, news, academic publications, events, team profiles, and a contact form.

[Check out the latest demo](https://research-group.netlify.app/) of what you'll get in less than 5 minutes, or [view the showcase](https://wowchemy.com/user-stories/).

_[**Wowchemy**](https://wowchemy.com) makes it easy to create a beautiful website for free. Edit your site in Markdown, Jupyter, or RStudio (via Blogdown), generate it with Hugo, and deploy with GitHub or Netlify. Customize anything on your site with widgets, themes, and language packs._

- 👉 [**Get Started**](https://wowchemy.com/templates/)
- 📚 [View the **documentation**](https://wowchemy.com/docs/)
- 💬 [Chat with the **Wowchemy community**](https://discord.gg/z8wNYzb) or [**Hugo community**](https://discourse.gohugo.io)
- 🐦 Twitter: [@wowchemy](https://twitter.com/wowchemy) [@GeorgeCushen](https://twitter.com/GeorgeCushen) [#MadeWithWowchemy](https://twitter.com/search?q=(%23MadeWithWowchemy%20OR%20%23MadeWithAcademic)&src=typed_query)
- 💡 [Request a **feature** or report a **bug** for _Wowchemy_](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules/issues)
- ⬆️ **Updating Wowchemy?** View the [Update Guide](https://wowchemy.com/docs/update/) and [Release Notes](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules/releases)

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this template and software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [❤️ Click here to unlock rewards with sponsorship](https://wowchemy.com/sponsor/)

## Ecosystem

* **[Hugo Academic CLI](https://github.com/wowchemy/hugo-academic-cli/):** Automatically import publications from BibTeX

Commit message:

updated readme to note not push main\

README.md, after:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/76963489-0a23-4cd5-b203-0ce329e02437/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/satsuma/deploys)

# Satsuma Research Group Site
This is the Satsuma Research Group Site, built using Hugo with theme Research Group by Wowchemy. More details on the theme and extra documentation below. The site itself is hosted on Netlify and built on the ```main``` branch, live at [satsuma.netlify.app](https://satsuma.netlify.app/).

**All research group members are entitled to update content and are strongly encouraged to as soon as possible!**

Content is written in [markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and managed using git, so content can be easily updated with any text editor or even without leaving github itself! Only make changes to the main branch via pull requests where a preview build will be generated by bots. Changes to the live site requires a 2nd reviewer to approve.

# Adding content
All content editing should be done in [/content/](/content), if in doubt you're welcome to ask. If your content doesn't fall within these categories then discuss with Joe/Ashkan to see what can be done.

1. Create a new branch with your name. Only edit the repository within this branch.
  * Do not push to `main`, ever. Only pull request from another branch.
2. Make content changes in in [/content/](/content), commit with a short description and push.
3. Make a pull request to the main branch. Check the preview deploy, if you wish to make anymore changes, you can do so by repeating 2, this should update the pull request.
4. A fellow group member/Joe will review your changes, if there are problems they can make small changes (e.g. grammer/typos) or they can comment. Once approved, it will be pulled to the main branch, Netlify will re-build the site and it will go live.

For how to include videos, latex math etc. see [wowchemy's page elements documentation](https://wowchemy.com/docs/content/)


## [Profiles](https://satsuma.netlify.app/people/)
Profiles are under [/content/authors](/content/authors), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate a fellow team member's (not Joe) folder within [/content/authors](/content/authors). Rename it to `shortname` for your name e.g. Joseph Jacob is `joe`. This is where all content relating to your profile will be stored.
2. replace `avatar.{jpg/png}` with your own profile pic (must be the same name).
3. Edit `\_index.md` to your details.
  * Leave `superuser` as false.
  * Leave `url` under `organisation` empty.
  * Your bio will be under the `---`.
  * Don't edit `email`, `highlight_name` and `user_groups`.
4. Feel free to add/remove social icons as you wish there are [SO MANY available](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons).

## [Papers](https://satsuma.netlify.app/publication/)
Papers are under [/content/publication](/content/publication), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate an existing paper's folder within [/content/publication](/content/publication). Rename it to ```authorYYYY-shorthand-identifer```. This is where all content relating to your paper will be stored.
2. create a `cite.bib` file for the bibtex citation of your paper, this will make it easy for people to cite your paper!
3. edit `index.md` and fill with your paper's information.
  * Make sure you include all names, check spelling as the site cross-references between papers.
  * Use the same [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) date_format. e.g. `date: "2021-02-18T00:00:00Z"`.
  * Use `summary` as a [plain language summary](https://authorservices.taylorandfrancis.com/publishing-your-research/writing-your-paper/how-to-write-a-plain-language-summary/).
  * Please provide as many relevant tags as you can think of, these are cross-referenced across the site.
  * Add as many of the links as you can! Particular PDF if your paper is open-access ONLY.
4. You can add a featured image, make sure it is named `featured.{png/jpg}` and saved within your paper's folder.

**Alternatively**:  Can you use the [academic python package](https://pypi.org/project/academic/) for Hugo websites. Then edit these files to comply with the above.

`pip3 install -U academic`

`academic import --bibtex <path_to_your/publications.bib>`

## [News/Blog posts](https://satsuma.netlify.app/post/)
News posts are under [/content/post](/content/post), follow adding content instructions alongside this guide.

1. Duplicate an existing post within [/content/post](/content/post). Rename it to  `YY-MM-DD-shortname`.  This is where all content relating to your post will be stored.
2. edit `index.md`: the header is contained within `---`.
  * Leave authors empty unless is it appropriate to specify. When specifying authors, use `authors: ["joe","ashkan"]` (e.g. `shortname`) format. Their `Name` and `shortbio` will appear associated with the post.
3. edit `index.md`: the body of the post is after `---`.
  * Text before `<!--more-->` is meant to act as a teaser and will appear as a preview to the post. Place it where appropriate. e.g. after the first sentence.
4. **Required** Add a featured image, make sure it is named `featured.{png/jpg}` and saved within your post's folder. This will be the thumbnail image of your post.

## Notes
* If you set `publishDate` to the future, it will not appear on the site until after that date.
* Simple markdown is plenty enough for adding/editing content, though if you want more, see [wowchemy's documentation](https://wowchemy.com/docs/).


# Local live preview
Want a live preview of changes you make to the site? Then you will need to [install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) using your favorite package manager. Navigate to the site repo on your local machine and run `Hugo server`, it will provide a link to view the local build and also re-build when you make any changes to site files within a split second! Handy for anything major.

---
## Wowchemy's Research Group Template for [Hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo)

The **Research Group Template** empowers your research group to easily create a beautiful website with a stunning homepage, news, academic publications, events, team profiles, and a contact form.

[Check out the latest demo](https://research-group.netlify.app/) of what you'll get in less than 5 minutes, or [view the showcase](https://wowchemy.com/user-stories/).

_[**Wowchemy**](https://wowchemy.com) makes it easy to create a beautiful website for free. Edit your site in Markdown, Jupyter, or RStudio (via Blogdown), generate it with Hugo, and deploy with GitHub or Netlify. Customize anything on your site with widgets, themes, and language packs._

- 👉 [**Get Started**](https://wowchemy.com/templates/)
- 📚 [View the **documentation**](https://wowchemy.com/docs/)
- 💬 [Chat with the **Wowchemy community**](https://discord.gg/z8wNYzb) or [**Hugo community**](https://discourse.gohugo.io)
- 🐦 Twitter: [@wowchemy](https://twitter.com/wowchemy) [@GeorgeCushen](https://twitter.com/GeorgeCushen) [#MadeWithWowchemy](https://twitter.com/search?q=(%23MadeWithWowchemy%20OR%20%23MadeWithAcademic)&src=typed_query)
- 💡 [Request a **feature** or report a **bug** for _Wowchemy_](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules/issues)
- ⬆️ **Updating Wowchemy?** View the [Update Guide](https://wowchemy.com/docs/update/) and [Release Notes](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules/releases)

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this template and software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [❤️ Click here to unlock rewards with sponsorship](https://wowchemy.com/sponsor/)

## Ecosystem

* **[Hugo Academic CLI](https://github.com/wowchemy/hugo-academic-cli/):** Automatically import publications from BibTeX
